[Doc] Distinguish libraries and plugins (#17018)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/using/libraries/index.rst

Libraries and plugins
=====================

:gdef:`Libraries <library>` contain only compiled Coq scripts while
:gdef:`plugins <plugin>` also include compiled OCaml code that can change
the behavior of Coq.  Both are :term:`packages <package>`.
While users configure and load them identically, there are a few differences
to consider:

- Nearly all plugins add things to the vernacular language that could not be
  added otherwise (modulo MetaCoq), so there are likely new top-level commands or
  tactics.
- Plugins can do almost anything to Coq, including expanding the trusted code
  base, so they can't be fully trusted.  If necessary, you can eliminate
  this risk by running :ref:`coqchk` on compiled scripts that load plugins.

>   (`coqchk` doesn't load plugins, so they won't be part of trusted code base.)

Author: Is this really correct?  You can modify the behavior of the kernel without editing the files that comprise it, e.g. you can plugin in additional code into the kernel?

Reviewer: I don't think so, but it's definitely possible to completely bamboozle the kernel by mutating values after sending them to it. For instance it would be pretty easy to write a plugin which finds a constant whose type is `id True` (reduces to True) and modifies it to `id False`, because application nodes use ocaml's mutable arrays.

installed with the `opam package manager
<https://coq.inria.fr/opam-using.html>`_.

:gdef:`Libraries <library>` contain only compiled Coq scripts.

> :gdef:`plugins <plugin>` can also include compiled OCaml code that can change

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:gdef:`Plugins <plugin>` can also include compiled OCaml code that can change
```

the behavior of Coq.  Both are :term:`packages <package>`.
While users configure and load them identically, there are a few differences
to consider:

> - Nearly all plugins add things to the vernacular language that could not be
>   added otherwise, so new top-level commands or tactics are likely available.
> - Plugins can do almost anything to Coq. Therefore they have more potential to
>   expand the trusted code base than libraries, so they shouldn't be fully
>   trusted.  If desired, you can reduce the risk by running :ref:`coqchk`
>   on compiled scripts that load plugins.

Reviewer 3: "Things" is in my opinion too informal. Also I think some statements are too sweeping here.
```suggestion
- Nearly all plugins add functionality to Coq that could not be added otherwise,
  so they likely provide new top-level commands or tactics.
- Compared to libraries, plugins can change Coq's behavior in many possibly
  unexpected ways. Therefore, using a plugin requires a degree of trust in its authors
  going beyond the trust required in libraries. If desired, you can mitigate trust issues
  by running :ref:`coqchk` on compiled files produced from Coq scripts that load plugins.
```

  (`coqchk` doesn't load plugins, so they won't be part of trusted code base.)

> - Plugins that aren't in Coq's CI (continuous integration) system are likely

Reviewer 2: If we mention Coq's CI, we should probably add a link to https://github.com/coq/coq/blob/master/dev/ci/README-users.md.

Author: Not sure that will be helpful for most users, who probably only want to know what packages are in CI.  Plus we have 3 different identifiers for each CI package that may or may not line up, e.g. `ci-equations`, the associated github web page (perhaps containing documentation) and the module name within Coq.  Maybe worth adding (in another PR) a file in the source tree (which could be automatically checked to some degree) or a list in the doc.

Reviewer 2: This is useful IMHO, not to help users figure out what packages are in CI (although if they really want, they can dig this info from the Coq repo), but so that interested users can tell plugin writers to put their plugin into Coq's CI.

Author: OK, added it.

installed with the `opam package manager
<https://coq.inria.fr/opam-using.html>`_.

:gdef:`Libraries <library>` contain only compiled Coq scripts.
:gdef:`Plugins <plugin>` can also include compiled OCaml code that can change
the behavior of Coq.  Both are :term:`packages <package>`.
While users configure and load them identically, there are a few differences
to consider:

- Nearly all plugins add functionality that could not be added otherwise
  and they likely add new top-level commands or tactics.
- Compared to libraries, plugins can change Coq's behavior in many possibly
  unexpected ways. Therefore, using a plugin requires a higher degree of trust
  in its authors than is needed for libraries.  If desired, you can mitigate
  trust issues by running :ref:`coqchk` on compiled files produced from Coq
  scripts that load plugins.  (`coqchk` doesn't load plugins, so they won't be
  part of trusted code base.)
- Plugins that aren't in Coq's
  `CI (continuous integration) system <https://github.com/coq/coq/blob/master/dev/ci/README-users.md>`_
  are likely

>   to break faster due to ongoing source code changes to Coq.  You may want to

Author: I would agree on the "faster than what" for an academic paper and those parts of the Coq documentation that need to be very precise.  This is more conversational wording; I doubt the omission will confuse anyone.  And no need for the passive voice.

How should the user interpret "quickly"?  It's not a comparison.

WDYT?

>   to break faster due to ongoing source code changes to Coq.  You may want to

Reviewer 3: Plugins generally break every few months. This is "quickly" by our ecosystem standards, where Coq code might break once a year, and SSReflect code breaks every few years. How about:

> to break across major versions due to source code changes in Coq

>   to break faster due to ongoing source code changes to Coq.  You may want to

Author: OK, but I would also say "_more_ likely to break".
